README.md, before:

<div align="center">

<!-- # Directory Browser
_Easiest way to browse your files and folders on the web._
![](dir-browser.png) -->

[![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19362349/235141708-34db874f-729c-4e50-b458-a3c0cb5d6c07.png)](https://dir.adriansoftware.de)

<!--
![](p1.png)
![](p2.png)
-->
</div>



<h2 align="center">

  Visit [dir.adriansoftware.de](https://dir.adriansoftware.de) for documentation & more! 

</h2>

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19362349/235142390-47505cd4-34b8-4a93-8ce8-04438c906924.png)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19362349/235142944-90397b16-fc85-476a-8f80-048393d09c0e.png)



## Demo

https://bp.adriansoftware.de

## Features
- **Download count** for all files
- Secure by default. **Read-only** access
- Extremly **fast** file serving through **nginx**
- **README** markdown rendering support
- **Low memory** footprint (~10MB)
- Light and **Darkmode**
- Many **Themes** available
- Easy setup using single **Docker** image
- **Responsive** design for mobile devices and desktop
- Easily configurable using **environment variables**
- File stats like modification dates, sizes and hashes
- **arm64** support

<!-- 
v1.1
  add reaedme markdown thephpleague/commonmark renderer !!cache!!
  fix santiaizte inout url 

v1.2
  add ignore pattern
  add remove attribution option
  add password protection
 
tbd
  add file stats
  themes bootswatch

TODO https://github.com/TechEmpower/FrameworkBenchmarks/blob/master/frameworks/PHP/php-ngx/deploy/nginx.conf#L49
diretly embed pohpo in nginx maximum performance

== BUGS ==

- when path contains a dot it triggers full reload -> turbolinks

-->

Commit message:

feat: add metadata, custom description and labels

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

<!-- # Directory Browser
_Easiest way to browse your files and folders on the web._
![](dir-browser.png) -->

[![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19362349/235141708-34db874f-729c-4e50-b458-a3c0cb5d6c07.png)](https://dir.adriansoftware.de)

<!--
![](p1.png)
![](p2.png)
-->
</div>



<h2 align="center">

  Visit [dir.adriansoftware.de](https://dir.adriansoftware.de) for documentation & more! 

</h2>

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19362349/235142390-47505cd4-34b8-4a93-8ce8-04438c906924.png)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19362349/235142944-90397b16-fc85-476a-8f80-048393d09c0e.png)



## Demo

https://bp.adriansoftware.de

## Features
- **Download count** for all files
- Secure by default. **Read-only** access
- Extremly **fast** file serving through **nginx**
- **README** markdown rendering support
- add **custom description and labels** to files and folders
- **Low memory** footprint (~10MB)
- Light and **Darkmode**
- Many **Themes** available
- Easy setup using single **Docker** image
- **Responsive** design for mobile devices and desktop
- Easily configurable using **environment variables**
- File stats like modification dates, sizes and hashes
- **arm64** support

<!-- 
v1.1
  add reaedme markdown thephpleague/commonmark renderer !!cache!!
  fix santiaizte inout url 

v1.2
  add ignore pattern
  add remove attribution option
  add password protection
 
tbd
  add file stats
  themes bootswatch

TODO https://github.com/TechEmpower/FrameworkBenchmarks/blob/master/frameworks/PHP/php-ngx/deploy/nginx.conf#L49
diretly embed pohpo in nginx maximum performance

== BUGS ==

- when path contains a dot it triggers full reload -> turbolinks


TODO Features:
- add descripton,labels metadata in item use <file/folder>.dbmeta.json

- replace github utpp download with npm i -g utpp

-->
